# Test Reporting
Test metrics

## Trainee
- Has basic theoretical knowledge of test reporting.
- Can report their own activities for the day, week, and sprint (tests created, tests executed, bugs created, other activities).

## Junior
- Understands 1st level metrics (number): # of defects, # of TCs passed/failed, # of defects by their criticality, etc.
- Can explain what Test Coverage, Test Effort, Defect Distribution, Test Execution, Requirements, and Requirement Coverage are, etc.
- Able to supply a report based on a given template

## Middle
- Able to provide a clear structural status for testing activities under their own responsibility.
- Able to read a report and understand the current product quality.
- Understands 1st and 2nd level metrics (relative): pass/fail rate per module/feature, defect leakage rate (e.g., found on PROD/total found * 100%), etc.
- Creates different diagrams to illustrate the quality of testing using metrics.

## Senior
- Provides a clear high and low-level structural overview of the testing status for the project.
- Able to differentiate the details of reports depending on the level of the target audience.
- Reports product quality.
- Provides certain, precise, narrative, and easy-to-understand information in reports.
- Regularly collects metrics in daily work, analyzes existing ones for improvements, and implements them for practical usage.
- Understands 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level metrics (distribution): defect leakage dynamics over iterations, dependency between the number of defects and the number of changes over iterations, etc.
- Collects information for metrics from different sources.

## Expert
- Able to define reporting standards and templates applicable for different deliveries, and supervise others on the subject.
- Has their own approach and style to report/present the quality, proven with good feedback in 3+ projects.
- Highlights the key things and gives a quick understanding of the essence of the information.
- Assures that reports highlight only valuable information.
- Can apply 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level metrics to the current project, and understands well how to collect and use them.
- Identifies gaps in the reporting process and provides approaches based on test metrics for improving the QA process and quality of the tested application/product.
- Has practical experience of metrics alignment with stakeholders, and implementation in 3+ projects.
