# Work with data
Data structures, Data testing, Excel, Data analysis

## Trainee
- Has basic theoretical knowledge of what DBs are. Knows the most common databases.
- Understands the data testing process. Has experience with MS Excel and knows the main commands.

## Junior
- Understands different data types and is able to define appropriate test ranges under supervision.
- Understands and can analyze a simple data set.
- Can perform simple select queries on a DB.
- Knows common file types such as txt, xlsx, and csv.
- Able to manipulate data with basic tooling functions for analysis.

## Middle
- Able to define clear and optimal data sets and scenarios for data quality testing.
- Can analyze and test data flow, transformation, and loading processes (ETL).
- Familiar with at least one database management system.
- Familiar with Excel pivot tables and charts.

## Senior
- Performs the analysis of large, complex data sets in short timeframes using optimal approaches and provides valuable results.
- Able to analyze the data workflow and find bottlenecks.
- Understands the impact of data structure usage to identify the algorithmic complexity of processing and common defects that appear because of it.
- Able to generate information using specific data structures as a target, choosing optimal ways to process and save the data.

## Expert
- Able to analyze the data workflow and find bottlenecks and provide their own vision on how to improve it.
- Understands the internal architecture of the database and how its engine works.
- Able to generate information using specific data structures as a target, choosing optimal ways to process and save the data.
